various events are being held across the
world to Mark the UN International Day
of solidarity with the Palestinian
people in the South African city of
Johannesburg trade unions and members of
Civil Society have been holding
demonstrations calling for an immediate
ceasefire in Gaza South Africa's
Parliament voted last week recommending
the closure of the Israeli Embassy in
the country and a suspension of
diplomatic ties faban Miller has more
from
Johannesburg the call for a free
Palestine resonates with many South
Africans because of South Africa's
apartate history they say that
Palestinians are going through exactly
what people of color in South Africa
went through for decades and some
analysts have drawn parallels between an
apartate Israel and an apartate South
Africa they say two countries that work
together from 1948 to achieve their
objectives and many people here say
they're hoping that their presence at
this demonstration will bring change it
is not the war that's started on the 7th
of October as other people
want it started 75 years ago when that
area that region was occupied by the the
Israelis I'm here to really just express
our outcry in horror at the 247
healthcare workers that have been killed
in Gaza the hospitals that have been
bombed and the civilians and children
that have been targeted dozens of
organizations have come together in
Johannesburg they made up of political
parties NOS Civil Society organizations
but they all have one thing in common
they're calling for a free Palestine and
an end to the genocide they say they
also want the South African government
to cut diplomatic ties with Israel that
has been under debate for a number of
weeks now the South African Parliament
has held a vote uh where the resolution
was passed that South Africa should
indeed stize with Israel But ultimately
it's up to to the president SRA maposa
and there's been no word from the
president or the cabinet on what South
Africa will do next but protests like
this continue around the country there
have been protests in main cities like
Durban Johannesburg where we are as well
as Cape Town And there are a number of
protests planned for the coming days fam
Mal Al jazer Johannesburg